README.md, before:

# ECS-optimized AMI Build Recipes

This is a [packer](https://packer.io) recipe for creating an ECS-optimized AMI.
It will create a private AMI in whatever account you are running it in.

## Instructions

1. Setup AWS cli credentials.
2. Make the recipe that you want, REGION must be specified. Options are: al1, al2, al2arm, al2gpu, al2keplergpu, al2inf, 
al2kernel5dot10, al2kernel5dot10arm, al2kernel5dot10gpu, al2kernel5dot10inf, al2023, al2023arm, al2023neu.
```
REGION=us-west-2 make al2
```

**NOTE**: `al2keplergpu` is a build recipe that this package supports to build ECS-Optimized GPU AMIs for instances with GPUs
with Kepler architecture (such as P2 type instances). ECS-Optimized GPU AMIs for this target are not officially built and published.

## Configuration

This recipe allows for configuration of your AMI. All configuration variables are defined and documented
in the file: `./variables.pkr.hcl`. This is also where some defaults are defined.

Variables can be set in `./release.auto.pkrvars.hcl` or `./overrides.auto.pkrvars.hcl`.

#### Overrides

If you would like to override any of the defaults provided here without committing any changes to git, you
can use the `overrides.auto.pkrvars.hcl` file, which is ignored by source control.

For example, if you want your AMI to have a smaller root block device, you can override the default value
of 30 GB like this:

```
export REGION=us-west-2
echo "block_device_size_gb = 8" > ./overrides.auto.pkrvars.hcl
make al2
```

## Additional Packages

Any rpm package placed into the additional-packages/ directory will be uploaded to the instance and installed.

**NOTE**: All packages must end with extension `"$(uname -m).rpm"`, ie `.x86_64.rpm` or `.aarch64.rpm`.

## Cleanup

1. Deregister the AMI from EC2 Images via cli or console.
2. Delete the snapshot from EC2 EBS via cli or console.

## IAM Permissions

For details on the minimum IAM permissions required to build the AMI, please see the
packer docs: https://www.packer.io/docs/builders/amazon#iam-task-or-instance-role

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 License.

Commit message:

Refactor SSM installation, update README, and remove air-gapped check
- Modify script to continue build on SSM download failure
- Add graceful exit function for download attempts
- Remove air-gapped region check and early exit
- Update README with warning about potential SSM installation failures

README.md, after:

# ECS-optimized AMI Build Recipes

This is a [packer](https://packer.io) recipe for creating an ECS-optimized AMI.
It will create a private AMI in whatever account you are running it in.

## Instructions

1. Setup AWS cli credentials.
2. Make the recipe that you want, REGION must be specified. Options are: al1, al2, al2arm, al2gpu, al2keplergpu, al2inf, 
al2kernel5dot10, al2kernel5dot10arm, al2kernel5dot10gpu, al2kernel5dot10inf, al2023, al2023arm, al2023neu.
```
REGION=us-west-2 make al2
```

**NOTE**: `al2keplergpu` is a build recipe that this package supports to build ECS-Optimized GPU AMIs for instances with GPUs
with Kepler architecture (such as P2 type instances). ECS-Optimized GPU AMIs for this target are not officially built and published.

## Configuration

This recipe allows for configuration of your AMI. All configuration variables are defined and documented
in the file: `./variables.pkr.hcl`. This is also where some defaults are defined.

Variables can be set in `./release.auto.pkrvars.hcl` or `./overrides.auto.pkrvars.hcl`.

#### Overrides

If you would like to override any of the defaults provided here without committing any changes to git, you
can use the `overrides.auto.pkrvars.hcl` file, which is ignored by source control.

For example, if you want your AMI to have a smaller root block device, you can override the default value
of 30 GB like this:

```
export REGION=us-west-2
echo "block_device_size_gb = 8" > ./overrides.auto.pkrvars.hcl
make al2
```

## Important Note on SSM Binaries Installation

The build process includes a step to download and install Amazon SSM Agent binaries. If this step fails, the build will continue and complete normally, but the resulting AMI may lack ECS Exec functionality. To alert users to this possibility, we've implemented the following:

1. If the SSM binaries download fails, an error message will be printed to the console.
2. The build process will continue despite this failure.
3. To check if SSM binaries were successfully installed, look for error messages in the build logs containing "Failed to download amazon-ssm-agent.tar.gz" or "Failed to download amazon-ssm-agent.tar.gz.sig".

## Additional Packages

Any rpm package placed into the additional-packages/ directory will be uploaded to the instance and installed.

**NOTE**: All packages must end with extension `"$(uname -m).rpm"`, ie `.x86_64.rpm` or `.aarch64.rpm`.

## Cleanup

1. Deregister the AMI from EC2 Images via cli or console.
2. Delete the snapshot from EC2 EBS via cli or console.

## IAM Permissions

For details on the minimum IAM permissions required to build the AMI, please see the
packer docs: https://www.packer.io/docs/builders/amazon#iam-task-or-instance-role

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This project is licensed under the Apache-2.0 License.
